# RFID-BASED-ATTENDANCE-SYSTEM
INTRODUCTION 
Background 
The current attendance system is manual. Manual means that the work of taking attendance, analyzing and maintaining is a physical task. Current attendance system takes lot of time and papers. Teachers needs to wait for all children and then take attendance. If the strength of the class is 80-100 student then it wastes the time and paper both student and teachers. Here there is double work that needs to be done that is and maintain the attendance record. The teacher needs to enter data in master rolls and the paper works increases. On a daily basis at least, a particular class has its attendances sheet. Therefor on a daily basis as a large number of papers is used. This creates a big load of paper records and to maintain is tough job. On another note it creates a massive paper wastage. More records are made on monthly basis or semester basis. It leads to searching of records in huge papers bubbles. This makes analyzing more hectic. The other drawback is that if a student I not present in lectures the parents are notified. No notification feature is provided in current manual attendance system. 
Objectives 
The main objective is to make the attendance system automatic and easy with the help of RFID based Attendance System. The RFID Attendance System will help to save a lot of time and paperwork. Another main objective of the proposed project is that the parents will be notified about their children attending lectures or not. It will help to maintain a good record of attendance without any errors. This is help to save the both teachers and students time and efforts.  Purpose The main purpose of the proposed project is to make current attendance system i.e. Manual to Automatic. The purpose and aim is to save a lot of time and papers by making system automatic and help teacher and student. 
It will also make the job of analyzing the record and retrieving the record easier and faster. The maintenance of records is really a mess and there can be a loss of records and human errors that can cause damaging the records so the RFID attendance system helps to reduce the human errors and make the process easy. One of the important purposes of the project is being developed so that the parents can be notified and know about their children activities. Scope The project can be implemented in small or big colleges. Our project will help to reduce the papers and for maintaining the attendance record and also the work required to analyzing the records of attendance. It will make the process of attendance and maintaining for particular school/colleges. The RFID cards are easy to carry in wallets or bags. They are very light weight. Student can just punch the cards and their attendance will be recorded. It will help both student and teachers and reduce time and paper wastage.
Applicability 
The application of the project is that attendance is marked automatically no need of paper. This product can be used in all school and colleges or even in offices. This will reduce the usage of paper and manpower required. The analyzing of data that takes lot of time. There will be no longer waiting time for taking attendance and wasting time. Student can just swap the card and attendance will be recorded.  This project is very useful for the colleges as it will eliminate use of paper and save cost and make the process of storage and metrical easy.
